---
title: 'Introduction + Welcome!'
date: 2023-06-16
permalink: /posts/2023/06/intro/
tags:
  - intro
---

Hey there! This is my first blog post. Here, I'll be going through what I plan to include in my blog --- but the TLDR is that I'll go over research papers in theoretical machine learning and (attempt to) explain their concepts!  

# Why am I doing this?

I've always wanted to be able to go through a rigorous research paper and understand its contents thoroughly. I've been mainly inspired to do this after having attended TCU's Deep Learning Theory Seminar at Columbia, led by the amazing [Clayton Sanford](https://claytonsanford.com/). He has a blog of his own on his page that I highly encourage anyone interested in ML theory to read (I especially recommend his OPML series, where he goes through research papers of his own).

# But what will you be posting, exactly?

The structure for this blog will be a little bit weird, but there's a reason for this. For each paper I read, there will be two correspond blog posts (yay! double the content):

1. One of these posts will be a  _super_ high level overview of the paper. By this I mean that there will be the minimal amount of math involved, so that I (as well as you) can easily grasp what the paper is about and get on with my (your) day. Oftentimes, my understanding of a paper gets too bogged down by the math, so by writing this post I'll be able to guide myself to understand the gist of a paper, and hopefully let you understand what the paper is about as well!

2. The other post will be more of a typical ML blog post, where the math will come back in. There may be even more math involved than your typical post since we have another post on the same topic to help guide me (you) to understand the paper. 

I will try and incrementally relate one post to the next, so that there is some sort of "story" being told with these posts. Inevitably, there will be mistakes that I make on these posts; if you ever find any, please [let me know](csl2183@columbia.edu)!

I will also occasionally post other things that I might find cool or interesting!